# AZ900



# Azure and network security

## Tools and features
Azure security centre: monitoring service that provides threat protection across Azure and on-premises data centres. Provides continuous monitoring. 
- Free tier
- Standard tier
	+ Allows to connect on-premises


Gives you overall security score, with reccommendations on how to improve. You either get quick fixes or you need to get it done manually



## Azure Sentinel
Security information management and security automated response solution that provides security analytics and threat intelligence across an enterprise.


## Azure key vault
Stores application secrets in a centralised cloud location in order to securely control access permissions and access logging. (Secrets-key-certificate management + storing secrets backed by hardware security modules)
- Manages certification and renewal in its own.



## Azuure dedicated host
Provides physical servers that host one or more Azure virtual machines, but it is dedicated to a single organisation's workload. Benefits:
- Hardware isolation at the server level
- Control over maintenance event timing
- Aligned with Azure hybrid use benefits
	+ You can bring your own certificates 
	



## Secure your network

### Defense in depth
A layered approach to securing computer systems. It provides multiple levels of protection so that attacks against one layer are isolated from subsequent layers.

Protect your network with Network Security Groups (NSG) to filter network trafic to and from Azure resources on Azure virtual network. ex Inbound and outbound rules to filter by source and destination IP.

Perimeter level:
Azure firewall: managed Firewall as a service (FaaS) that grants/denies server access based on originating IP address, in order to protect network resources.
- Inbound/outbound traffic filtering rules
- Cloud scalability and monitor logging

Azure Application Gateway, also provides a firewall.
 
Azure Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) protection
- Sanitises unwanted network traffic before it impacts service availability
- Basic tier is automatically included
- Standard tier adds mitigation capabilities that are tuned to protect Azure Virtual Network resources









# Module 5 Identity features

Core Identity services (Auth and Auth)
Authentication: identifies the person seeking to access the resources
Authorisation: determines which data they can access and what they can do with it


*Multi-Factor authentication*
Two or more elements: something you know, something you possess and something you are (as of now no biometric authentication)


*Azure Active Directory (AAD)*
AAD is a cloud based identiy and access management service.
- Authentication (for employees sign in)
- Single sign-on (SSO)
- Application management
- Business to business (B2B)
- Business to customer (B2C)
- Device management

AAD offers conditional access to make decisions based on organisational choices. Such as you can access only from a corporate device, only from so many networks etc.


Role based access control (RBAC)
Fine access management, for example a user can only manage a specific thing, while others can do more than that (duties segregation)



*Resource locks*
Protect the resources from accidental deletion or modification. Read only or update only lock. 


*Tags*
Provides metadata for your Azure resources, these are logically organised and very useful for billing



*Azure policy*
Helps to enforce organisational standards and assess compliance at scale. For example evaluates resources that do not comply with your policies (ex wont allow a employee to get a service different than the one I authorised, making the bill skyrocket). This is in the service page. This is not retroactive (it will only mark it as out of compliance).




*Azure Blueprints*
Allows for development teams to rapidly build and stand up new environments through given blue prints. Different from management resource template as every deployment is tied to the resource package.




*Cloud adoption framework*
It is basically a guide to approach adoption of azure. It shows the best practices, tools and guidance for strategies and outcomes






## Security privacy and compliance
Compliance (respecting local laws and regulations). Ex how do they manage data.

Privacy: it explains what and how they process data



*Trust center*
Is the website proding all best practices and information regardign security privacy and compliance. www.microsoft.com/trustcenter -> compliance -> compliance offerings


*Azure sovereign regions (US government services)*
They offer security and compliance needs for us federal authorities. Also for china through 21Vianet.





















# Pricing and support

## Factors affecting cost
- Resource types
	+ Costs are resource-specific, and depend on the type
- Services
	+ Azure usage rates and billing periods can differ between different type of services like enterprise, web direct adn CSP
		* WebDirect -> customers that just join and want the service (full retail)
		* Enterprise -> large organisations who have negotiated a bill (discount, usually billed annualy instead of monthly)
		* CSP -> cloud solution provider, it's a 3rd party partner that helps you set up the account (you're paying even more than you should)
- Location
	+ Depending on the infrastructure you leverage you might have to pay more or less (ex swizerland costs more than other lcations)
- Bandwidth
	+ Some inbound transfers are free, for outbound data it might cost based on zones
- Reserved instances
	+ You can commit for 1 to 3 year to an infrastructure and pay up to 72% less
- Azure hybrid use benefit
	+ For customers with software assurance, this allows you to use your on-premises licenses on Azure at a reduced cost.




## Pricing calculator
A tool that helps you ESTIMATE the cost of azure products. The options that you can configure in the pricing calculator vary between products, but mainly influenced by factors above. The interface of the calculator is similar to the home.
For production select standard.


*Total cost of ownership calculator*
Estimates cost savings you can get by migrating your services to Azure


*Azure cost management*
Reports all billings, budgets and alerts when the cost exceed limits. It also recommends ways of lower costs









# Azure Service level Agreement (SLAs)
SLAs describe microsoft's commitments for uptime and connectivity.
- Based on individual products and services
- Detailed agreements on the service provided and any exceptions to the SLAs
- If they fail to comply you can refound.
Downtimes range from 99% (~7h18min/month) 99.99999% (26s/month)

More services cause to lower the SLA, while availability zones raise your SLA


DO NOT PUT PREVIEW FEATURES IN THE PRODUCTION, this does not have an SLA and might not make it to general availability (could break stuff)
Check fr this stuff in the Azure updates Page.



aka.ms/azfunpath











































































